The goal of the Newborn Screening (NBS) query use case is to ensure that public health agency programs have access to the data they need to effectively care for newborns with potential hearing and cardiac conditions. The application of the FHIR query & response paradigm can help to ensure that newborns identified for follow-up through bedside screening at birthing facilities receive the follow up and care they require. These results typically come in the form of an interpretation of screening data resulting in a value of either “pass” or “refer”, where “refer” often triggers further diagnostic testing and/or services provided to the newborn and their family. While HL7 version 2 (v2) standards for transmitting early hearing detection and intervention (EHDI) and critical congenital heart disease (CCHD) results from EHRs to public health agency systems have existed for many years, there is very little practical implementation of these standards and data is still largely exchanged through manual and paper-based workflows. 
FHIR offers new opportunities for NBS programs to proactively access screening results captured by birthing facilities. The data exchange pattern described here can be extended to additional reportable conditions, such as cystic fibrosis or other congenital diagnoses. 

## Actors

* The newborn screening system in use by the jurisdictional program will play the role of the FHIR client querying for data. 
* Alternatively, an intermediary system (such as an integration engine) or third-party tool may play the role of the FHIR client on behalf of the NBS system. 
* The EHR system in use at a birth facility will play the role of the FHIR server. Intermediaries such as a Health Information Network (HIN) may facilitate the FHIR query. 

## Benefits

Benefits for NBS programs include improving the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of EHDI and CCHD reporting as well as saving staff time by replacing manual processes with automated ones. Benefits for birthing facilities include the automation of existing manual reporting processes, a reduction in redundant documentation of screening results in multiple systems and ensuring the best care for newborns with potential hearing or cardiac conditions. 